# Quantitative Theory of Consciousness
A Theoretical Space for Identifying Events within a personaltiy framework 

Introduction
Consciousness has been of interest throughout human history. Answers to questions have been elusive and once found difficult to practice. How do human beings become conscious? Is it possible to become more conscious? Is there anything more enlightened than consciousness? This analysis seeks to establish a basis or space in which it will be possible to quantify consciousness.

Analyzing consciousnesss demands an indepth review of personality. To review an event taken by individuals is complex. One individual might perform an action with more or less consciousness than another. Another might perform an objectionable event opposed to the first, is this second individual more or less conscious? The only real way to confront this question is through a ration discussion of personality. With a map of consciousness it is possible to establish a deeper understanding of personality. In addition to personality a deep dive into consciousness will inevitably analyze the observer effect. Observation of events is linked with consciousness. It is possible to say that n event has become conscious without having been observed. However, talking about observation means that we have to understand and know what the observer effect is and how it works in relation to not just events but for the very thoughts with which humans think. 

To identify a map of conscious it becomes neseccary to be very clear about what we say is conscious. First a coordinate system will be choosen upon which to locate events. Second the logic that will be used to identify consciousness must be very clear. 

A two dimensional coordinate system will be used to locate events within the space. What can be thought of as the x-axis will become the consciousness axis. Positive numbers on the line will designate increasing consciousness and will also be used to identify events. Negative points on the line will similarly be recognized as unconscious. The y-axis will be awareness where positive points on the line describe awareness and negative points in the y-axis as unaware. In this way these four quadrants will describe events in which we are conscious and aware, conscious but unaware, unconscious and aware, and finally unconscious and unaware. Examples are as follows. When describing an individual's actions perhaps it is easiest to describe events for which we are unconscious and unaware. Bodily functions like the action of the liver or kidneys are completely unconscious and usually we have no awareness of. Actoins that are conscious but there is no awareness might be an action taken consciously but without any real awareness. An individual might be conscious of the steps they are taking on a walk, but have a complete lack of awareness of the walk. An example of what is conscious and aware might be what the walker is thinking about, their day, the dog, their relationships. Finally it is important to identify the unconscious awareness. Taking the walker example again, the unconscious could be aware of sounds and threats in the nearby area. Completely unconscious these disturbances in the background do not usually merit conscious attention, but are tracked in the aware unconscious.

A second two dimensional coordinate system will focus on what is real. For this coordinate system the positive x-axis will be for truth while the negative x-axis will be falsehood. The positive y-axis will describe real objects and the negative for unreal or fantastic objects. An example will describe a movie. The least understood quadrant within this coordinate system will be the quadrant that identifies unreal falsehood. Most movies describe events and characters which are completely false and unreal. The quadrant which designates fantastic truth might be unlying meaning to the movie which gives a movie an ability to resonate. False reality could be situations within the movie that did not or could never happen and yet where great pains are taken to simulate reality the movie gains some connection to what might happen in real life. Finally, the real truth within a movie could give us a sense of the real and true connection that actors have with their environment or other actors. It doesn’t matter that the set is fabricated or the actors are portraying other individuals, whenever a truly real moment happens on a set, movie magic is possible.

While these two coordinate systems will be used to identify events and objects, it is possible to combine the consciousness axis with the truth axis as well as the other combinations identifiable within this framework. Also, while it is useful to identify a specific point within a coordinate system, this analysis will also discuss the coordinate system as a field. That when speaking of a field there is no specific point on the axis, instead this analysis will discuss a field as if it is present within all four quadrants at once. The above demonstrates this type of discussion, emphasizing that within one specific example of the walk and the movie all four quadrants were and to some extent had to all be described.

This leads to a need to identify a logic for which these analyses can be derived. Namely a logic of the whole. The scientific mindset that pervades cause and effect logic systems necessarily removes all meaning from an object or an event. By stripping meaning away it is possible to identify how an object or an event will perform in detail. Given a very specific context scientific thinking will be able to describe what an object or an event will do. At the cost of truly understanding how life works, meaning is lost. This idea can be generalized to identify reasoning that loses the big picture to be able to work in the details. Scientific rationality is a very important tool and at the same time it is thought that there is no way to rationally analyze meaning. In the 1980’s and 1990’s the concept of left and right brain thinkers was promulgated. One of the foundational concepts within the left and right brain dichotomy was that rationality and logic reside purely within the left brain. While echoes of this dichotomy are still present as divisions between the sciences and the arts this false dichotomy continues to insare gullible minds. The idea that the left brain is the only seat of rationality is patently false. It is easy to see that false dichotomy that has crept into our institutions of learning in the output that they produce. There is just as much irrationality in the sciences, albeit of a different type, as there is within the humanities. Further this report declares that rationality is as present in the right brain as it is within the left. It is illogical to accept that all supposedly true articles and reports produced by supposed scientific thinking are real. It is evident that there are publications within the scientific community that directly contradict each other. Further there are many supposedly scientific significance that can not be repeated. Others that while completely logical can not found. Finally some results, found to be repeatable and extremely significant are of very little use in the real world. Science can not solve hunger or give meaning within a meaningless world. 

A logic of wholes will be described. While the logic of science is beneficial to use to identify minute detail, indeed is necessary for understanding how to achieve a specific result, that specific detail is only one or even a few details within an infinite amount of detail. Even within one given situation, even a limited one there are an infinite number of details. Continuous properties like temperature and light can change the details involved in any real world situation. Outside the lab anything can happen and for such experiences it is necessary to develop a different type of rational logic based on wholes. This whole based logic will necessarily loose the ability to identify detail, but will gain the ability to logically identify meaning within a whole. Many will read the above words and think that a logic based on wholes can not be achieved. For example the simple dichotomy of male versus female can never be rationally examined. An individual stuck in this type of thinking could say that there will always be an exception to the rule. Further this person could say that since there is always an exception to the rule, there is no logic way to impose a formal logic system. And up front it must be admitted that if we were trying to create a logical system upon which everyone would be constrained this innocent individual would be correct. Yet that is not what a logic system based on whole would be created to do. There is no utility in forcing the individual to obey constrictive rules. Instead it is extremely easy to identify a logic of wholes to identify meaning and what is not meaningful. It is as simple as that. For example, using the sexes, it is easily possible to identify a logical system of the whole. Namely that the whole can become everything that is male on one side and everything that is not male on the other. This dichotomy is simple and includes everyone. The corollary of identifying all that is female and all that is not female is just as easy and will include everyone. Again a naive individual would say, but I am not all male, or I am not all female and therefore I can not be in any of the over simplified groups presented above. This naive individual must be instructed in the horribly hard logic of the right brain. If an individual has both male and female then obviously they can not be in the side of the dichotomy whose rule is, that only male is allowed. The naive individual would then say that it is impossible, that no one could ever be in the whole based logical rule that has the constraint of male. Also naive this individual would have to be reacquainted with the fact that this is actually how the brain works. In most individuals the left brain identifies down to the minutest detail what something is, while the right brain, in most individuals, identifies what is not that concept. Left brain logic is a very pleasant happy place. Right brain logic is hard, unyielding, and even terrifying. It is no wonder that the logic of wholes has not received as much airtime in our modern world of happiness and joy. Yet there is a logic of wholes and while it is horrible in its simplicity it is possible to understand it and inherit from it the tools necessary to identify meaning in our modern world where science has been working for generations to remove all meaning. It is time for a new logical revolution to sweep through our overly sanitized world.
